I still got my application running, now
I want to add some platform specific code and there, we get a couple of places where we can do this,
for example the icons and the tabs, we use the same icons for iOS and Android
but theoretically, iconicons, the icon set we're using ship with different icons,
so using them might make sense.
Additionally, take our buttons for example here on the auth screen,
when we click this button, we got this opacity look
but we also got that on Android,
now on android you might want to have this ripple effect instead on these buttons,
so that is something we can change. And maybe in your app you even need to change the layout depending
on the platform,
it's not really the case here but maybe in some application, you want to show a fourth input field
on Android only, well you can do all of that with the platform API.
So let me show you how it works and let me show you how it works
at the example of our button with a background, that's the button we're using on the auth screen. There
we use touchable opacity but I actually only want to use touchable opacity if we're on iOS, if we're
on Android, I want to use this touchable with native feedback,
so let me first of all import that, TouchableNativeFeedback is a wrapper which we can only use on Android,
so therefore I need some way of finding out if we are on Android or not. And for that I'll
first of all restructure this function to have a real function body and not immediately return jsx,
therefore I need to add a return statement in there but I also will import one other API from react
native and I already mentioned which one this will be, the platform API.
Now with that, what we can do is we can check if platform and there we got this OS variable or property
you could access and then we can compare this and it's either going to be iOS or Android.
And there I can check if it's Android and if it is, then I want to return some jsx which differs from
the other jsx, we'll have some common ground in between,
this view will always be the same so we can store this in some variable which we name content, there
I will simply put this view inside of it.
And then here in this return statement in this if block, I actually want return TouchableNativeFeedback
and wrap our content with it,
so output this content here dynamically and of course also connect onPress here.
And if we don't make it in here,
so if we don't return which we do here, then we know we got something else than Android, most likely iOS,
so here I then want to cover or get to this return statement where I will still use the touchable opacity
and in there, I also want to output the content, I'll quickly reformat all of that so that it's looking
a bit nicer.
And with that, we got a really flexible button which has some content that is always the same but then
checks if we are on Android with this platform API and the operating system, the OS property on it
and if we are on Android, then we actually wrap the button with TouchableNativeFeedback
otherwise we use touchable opacity.
Now with that save that file and make sure your development server is still running, you can always restart it
with npm start or npm run Android or run iOS.
And with that let's see let's reload our iOS app and Android app, now on iOS, if I press submit, you see
it still gets transparent so we have the touchable opacity on iOS and the rest works as before.
Now on Android, if I click it, it's hard to see but there was this ripple effect,
unfortunately it only fires if I click
but if you do watch closely here, you'll see it start.
So we got this ripple effect here on Android which is really awesome,
so you got to watch close but it is there
and now we got different effects and we are aware or we use the fact that we can get aware of which
platform we're running on.
Now I did mention that this would not be the only case, icons are another place where knowing the platform
is really useful.
So let's have a look at this in the next lecture.